DOCKER_SIMPLIFIED.md, before:

# Docker Simplification - Single Container Architecture

## 🎯 What Changed

Display Case has been **simplified from 2 containers to 1 container** - perfect for homelab use!

### Before (Over-engineered)
```
┌─────────────────────────┐
│  Frontend Container     │
│  (nginx)               │
│  ~100MB RAM            │
└────────┬────────────────┘
         │ Internal Network
┌────────▼────────────────┐
│  Backend Container      │
│  (Node.js)             │
│  ~200MB RAM            │
└─────────────────────────┘
Total: 2 containers, ~300MB RAM
```

### After (Simplified)
```
┌─────────────────────────┐
│  Display Case          │
│  (Node.js Express)     │
│  Serves: Frontend +    │
│          API +         │
│          Uploads       │
│  ~100MB RAM            │
└─────────────────────────┘
Total: 1 container, ~100MB RAM
```

## ✅ Benefits

### Simplicity
- **One Dockerfile** instead of two (client/ + server/)
- **One container** to manage (`displaycase` instead of `displaycase-client` + `displaycase-server`)
- **No nginx configuration** - Express serves everything
- **No internal networking** - everything in one process
- **Simpler logs**: `docker logs displaycase` instead of checking two containers

### Resource Usage
- **Memory**: ~100MB (vs ~300MB)
- **Disk**: ~150MB image (vs ~300MB combined)
- **CPU**: Single process (vs two processes + networking overhead)

### Easier Operations
```bash
# Before
docker-compose logs -f server  # Check backend
docker-compose logs -f client  # Check frontend
docker-compose exec server sh  # Backend shell
docker-compose exec client sh  # Frontend shell

# After
docker logs -f displaycase     # Check everything
docker exec -it displaycase sh # Single shell
```

## 🏗️ Technical Details

### How It Works

1. **Multi-stage Build**:
   - Stage 1: Build React frontend with Vite → `/app/client/dist`
   - Stage 2: Build Node.js backend with TypeScript → `/app/server/dist`
   - Stage 3: Production image combines both

2. **Express Server**:
   - Serves API at `/api/*`
   - Serves uploads at `/uploads/*`
   - Serves static React files at `/*`
   - Handles SPA routing (returns `index.html` for all non-API routes)

3. **Single Port**:
   - Everything on port 3000
   - No proxying needed
   - Direct connection

### File Changes

**Removed** (6 files):
- ❌ `client/Dockerfile`
- ❌ `client/.dockerignore`
- ❌ `client/nginx.conf`
- ❌ `server/Dockerfile`
- ❌ `server/.dockerignore`
- ❌ `server/docker-entrypoint.sh`

**Added** (3 files):
- ✅ `Dockerfile` (root - unified multi-stage)
- ✅ `.dockerignore` (root - unified)
- ✅ `docker-entrypoint.sh` (root - unified)

**Updated** (7 files):
- ✅ `docker-compose.yml` - Single service
- ✅ `server/src/index.ts` - Added static file serving
- ✅ `env.docker.example` - Simplified config
- ✅ `DOCKER.md` - Updated documentation
- ✅ `README.md` - Updated quick start
- ✅ `scripts/docker-build.sh` - Single image
- ✅ `scripts/docker-backup.sh` - Single container

**Net Change**: -3 files, simpler codebase!

## 📊 Comparison

| Aspect | Old (2 Containers) | New (1 Container) |
|--------|-------------------|-------------------|
| **Containers** | 2 | 1 |
| **Dockerfiles** | 2 | 1 |
| **Config Files** | 3 (2 Dockerfiles + nginx.conf) | 1 (Dockerfile) |
| **Services** | client + server | displaycase |
| **Ports** | 3000 (client), 3001 (server internal) | 3000 |
| **RAM** | ~300MB | ~100MB |
| **Disk** | ~300MB | ~150MB |
| **Networking** | Bridge network | None needed |
| **Logs** | 2 sources | 1 source |
| **Healthchecks** | 2 | 1 |
| **Complexity** | High | Low |

## 🚀 Deployment

Deployment is **identical** - same simple command:

```bash
docker-compose --env-file .env.docker up -d
```

But now you get:
- **Faster startup** (one container vs two)
- **Less memory** (~66% reduction)
- **Smaller download** (~50% smaller image)
- **Easier debugging** (single log stream)

## 🔄 Migration

If you're upgrading from the old 2-container setup:

```bash
# 1. Stop old containers
docker-compose down

# 2. Pull new code with unified Dockerfile
git pull

# 3. Start new single container
docker-compose --env-file .env.docker up -d
```

**Your data persists automatically!** The volume name changed from `displaycase_server_data` to `displaycase_data`, but Docker will handle the migration.

## 💡 Why This Makes Sense

### For Homelab Use
- You're not running Netflix - thousands of items is perfectly fine
- Single container is easier to manage
- Lower resource usage = more room for other services
- Simpler debugging = faster problem resolution

### Express Can Handle It
- Express easily serves static files
- Built-in SPA routing support
- No need for nginx overhead
- One less moving part to break

### Production-Ready
Still includes:
- ✅ Multi-stage builds (optimized images)
- ✅ Non-root user (security)
- ✅ Health checks (reliability)
- ✅ Automatic migrations (convenience)
- ✅ Volume persistence (data safety)

Just **simpler** and **more appropriate** for the use case!

## 📖 Documentation

All documentation has been updated:
- `DOCKER.md` - Complete single-container guide
- `README.md` - Updated quick start
- `env.docker.example` - Simplified config
- Helper scripts - All updated for single container

## ✨ Result

Display Case is now a **proper homelab application**:
- Simple single-container deployment
- Low resource usage
- Easy to understand and maintain
- Perfect for personal use
- Still production-ready

**This is what Docker should be for a homelab project!** 🎬

Commit message:

Complete Cineshelf implementation with Docker support
- Add comprehensive Docker containerization with single-container setup
- Implement complete media management system with TMDb integration
- Add admin panel with authentication and CRUD operations
- Include responsive frontend with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS
- Add file upload support for custom media images
- Implement collection filtering, sorting, and privacy controls
- Add comprehensive documentation and setup guides
- Include database migrations and backup scripts
- Ready for production deployment

DOCKER_SIMPLIFIED.md, after:

# Docker Simplification - Single Container Architecture

## 🎯 What Changed

Cineshelf has been **simplified from 2 containers to 1 container** - perfect for homelab use!

### Before (Over-engineered)
```
┌─────────────────────────┐
│  Frontend Container     │
│  (nginx)               │
│  ~100MB RAM            │
└────────┬────────────────┘
         │ Internal Network
┌────────▼────────────────┐
│  Backend Container      │
│  (Node.js)             │
│  ~200MB RAM            │
└─────────────────────────┘
Total: 2 containers, ~300MB RAM
```

### After (Simplified)
```
┌─────────────────────────┐
│  Cineshelf             │
│  (Node.js Express)     │
│  Serves: Frontend +    │
│          API +         │
│          Uploads       │
│  ~100MB RAM            │
└─────────────────────────┘
Total: 1 container, ~100MB RAM
```

## ✅ Benefits

### Simplicity
- **One Dockerfile** instead of two (client/ + server/)
- **One container** to manage (`cineshelf` instead of `cineshelf-client` + `cineshelf-server`)
- **No nginx configuration** - Express serves everything
- **No internal networking** - everything in one process
- **Simpler logs**: `docker logs cineshelf` instead of checking two containers

### Resource Usage
- **Memory**: ~100MB (vs ~300MB)
- **Disk**: ~150MB image (vs ~300MB combined)
- **CPU**: Single process (vs two processes + networking overhead)

### Easier Operations
```bash
# Before
docker-compose logs -f server  # Check backend
docker-compose logs -f client  # Check frontend
docker-compose exec server sh  # Backend shell
docker-compose exec client sh  # Frontend shell

# After
docker logs -f cineshelf     # Check everything
docker exec -it cineshelf sh # Single shell
```

## 🏗️ Technical Details

### How It Works

1. **Multi-stage Build**:
   - Stage 1: Build React frontend with Vite → `/app/client/dist`
   - Stage 2: Build Node.js backend with TypeScript → `/app/server/dist`
   - Stage 3: Production image combines both

2. **Express Server**:
   - Serves API at `/api/*`
   - Serves uploads at `/uploads/*`
   - Serves static React files at `/*`
   - Handles SPA routing (returns `index.html` for all non-API routes)

3. **Single Port**:
   - Everything on port 3000
   - No proxying needed
   - Direct connection

### File Changes

**Removed** (6 files):
- ❌ `client/Dockerfile`
- ❌ `client/.dockerignore`
- ❌ `client/nginx.conf`
- ❌ `server/Dockerfile`
- ❌ `server/.dockerignore`
- ❌ `server/docker-entrypoint.sh`

**Added** (3 files):
- ✅ `Dockerfile` (root - unified multi-stage)
- ✅ `.dockerignore` (root - unified)
- ✅ `docker-entrypoint.sh` (root - unified)

**Updated** (7 files):
- ✅ `docker-compose.yml` - Single service
- ✅ `server/src/index.ts` - Added static file serving
- ✅ `env.docker.example` - Simplified config
- ✅ `DOCKER.md` - Updated documentation
- ✅ `README.md` - Updated quick start
- ✅ `scripts/docker-build.sh` - Single image
- ✅ `scripts/docker-backup.sh` - Single container

**Net Change**: -3 files, simpler codebase!

## 📊 Comparison

| Aspect | Old (2 Containers) | New (1 Container) |
|--------|-------------------|-------------------|
| **Containers** | 2 | 1 |
| **Dockerfiles** | 2 | 1 |
| **Config Files** | 3 (2 Dockerfiles + nginx.conf) | 1 (Dockerfile) |
| **Services** | client + server | cineshelf |
| **Ports** | 3000 (client), 3001 (server internal) | 3000 |
| **RAM** | ~300MB | ~100MB |
| **Disk** | ~300MB | ~150MB |
| **Networking** | Bridge network | None needed |
| **Logs** | 2 sources | 1 source |
| **Healthchecks** | 2 | 1 |
| **Complexity** | High | Low |

## 🚀 Deployment

Deployment is **identical** - same simple command:

```bash
docker-compose --env-file .env.docker up -d
```

But now you get:
- **Faster startup** (one container vs two)
- **Less memory** (~66% reduction)
- **Smaller download** (~50% smaller image)
- **Easier debugging** (single log stream)

## 🔄 Migration

If you're upgrading from the old 2-container setup:

```bash
# 1. Stop old containers
docker-compose down

# 2. Pull new code with unified Dockerfile
git pull

# 3. Start new single container
docker-compose --env-file .env.docker up -d
```

**Your data persists automatically!** The volume name changed from `cineshelf_server_data` to `cineshelf_data`, but Docker will handle the migration.

## 💡 Why This Makes Sense

### For Homelab Use
- You're not running Netflix - thousands of items is perfectly fine
- Single container is easier to manage
- Lower resource usage = more room for other services
- Simpler debugging = faster problem resolution

### Express Can Handle It
- Express easily serves static files
- Built-in SPA routing support
- No need for nginx overhead
- One less moving part to break

### Production-Ready
Still includes:
- ✅ Multi-stage builds (optimized images)
- ✅ Non-root user (security)
- ✅ Health checks (reliability)
- ✅ Automatic migrations (convenience)
- ✅ Volume persistence (data safety)

Just **simpler** and **more appropriate** for the use case!

## 📖 Documentation

All documentation has been updated:
- `DOCKER.md` - Complete single-container guide
- `README.md` - Updated quick start
- `env.docker.example` - Simplified config
- Helper scripts - All updated for single container

## ✨ Result

Cineshelf is now a **proper homelab application**:
- Simple single-container deployment
- Low resource usage
- Easy to understand and maintain
- Perfect for personal use
- Still production-ready

**This is what Docker should be for a homelab project!** 🎬
